docs: introduced vs integration upgrade wizard article (#1268)
telerik/blazor-docs: getting-started/vs-integration/upgrade-wizard.md

---
title: Upgrading Projects
page_title: Upgrade Project - Visual Studio Integration
description: Learn how to upgrade a Telerik UI for Blazor project with our Visual Studio Extension.
slug: getting-started-vs-integration-upgrade-project
position: 6
---

# Upgrading Projects

This article demonstrates how to use the [Telerik Visual Studio Extension]({% slug getting-started-vs-integration-overview %}) to upgrade a project that is pre-configured for the Progress&reg; Telerik&reg; UI for Blazor components.

> ## The Basics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Basics
```

> The Upgrade Project Wizard upgrades the version of an existing Telerik UI for Blazor applications. To open the wizard, right Click on the **Project in the Solution Explorer -> Telerik UI for Blazor -> Upgrade Wizard**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Upgrade Project Wizard** upgrades the version of existing Telerik UI for Blazor applications. To open the wizard, right-click on the **Project in the Solution Explorer -> Telerik UI for Blazor -> Upgrade Wizard**.
```

![Open Upgrade Wizard](images/upgrade-wizard-open.png)

## Files for Upgrade

> The **Information Page** of the Upgrade Project Wizard describes the files and assemblies that are going to be upgraded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Upgrade Information** step of the Upgrade Project Wizard describes the files and assemblies that will be upgraded.
```

![Upgrade Wizard Information Page](images/upgrade-wizard-information.png)

> * The Telerik Blazor Upgrade Wizard will do the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Telerik Blazor Upgrade Wizard will do the following: 
```
No need for a bullet here, the sentence is not part of a bullet list. You may render plain text or caption.

>     1. Update the version of the referenced Blazor NuGet package. It will also update the package source in the solution-based NuGet config file.

Reviewer: No need for an ordered list - I suppose the wizard does not necessarily performs the changes in this order. I suggest using an unordered list.

>     1. It will update the version of the theme references.

Reviewer: If one uses the CDNs, will the Wizard automatically update their URLs with the selected version? If so, we may also mention that.

    1. It will update all local script and style and NuGet package references in case client upgrades from Trial to Dev version.
    1. It will add the new keys in the default (English) localization file.

## Projects for Upgrade

> On the next page, the Upgrade Wizard lists all projects from the solution in which is used the Telerik UI for Blazor. This enables you to choose the projects that will be updated and the version to which they will be upgraded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next page of the Upgrade Wizard lists all projects from the solution that use Telerik UI for Blazor. Choose the projects that you want to upgrade and the version to which they will be upgraded.
```
Active voice, simpler wording.

> >It is recommended to upgrade all projects to the selected version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>We recommend selecting all projects that reference UI for Blazor and upgrading them to the same product version.
```

![Upgrade Wizard Projects Selection](images/upgrade-wizard-projects.png)  

> ## Upgrade Localization File

Reviewer: I recommend changing the structure so that the "Upgrade Localization File", "Create Backup" and  "Upgrade Log" are subsections of an "Upgrade Settings" section. They are all part of this step.

> When **Upgrade the localization file** option is selected, the Upgrade Wizard will add new localization keys from the default (English) localization file in the distribution we upgrade to. The option is selected by default if there is a **Resources\TelerikMessages.resx** file in the current project. In this case, **Resources\TelerikMessages.resx** file is selected in the file browser.

Reviewer: What happens if localization is not enabled in the app? Will the wizard still display this option?

> >If the selected file is missing or read-only, the page state is not valid. In this case, the **Finish** button will display a tooltip when clicked, indicating a page error.

Reviewer: Will the wizard only look in the `Resources` folder since this is the default path? If the `resx` files are placed in another directory, will the file be treated as missing?

> >If the selected file is missing or read-only, the page state is not valid. In this case, the **Finish** button will display a tooltip when clicked, indicating a page error.

Reviewer: I recommend adding a Troubleshooting section at the end of the article similar to [this one](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/getting-started/vs-integration/convert-project-wizard#troubleshooting). There we can add a sample screenshot of the error and point the user to what they can do to resolve the issue. We may then link this section from the note and from [here](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/getting-started/vs-integration/troubleshooting).

![Upgrade Wizard Localization File](images/upgrade-wizard-localization-file.png)  

## Create Backup

You can create a backup before running the upgrade wizard by selecting the **Create a backup before upgrading** option.

> If **Create a backup before upgrading** option is selected, and the **Backup location** is empty, the Next button is disabled.

> >When the project and solution are placed in the same directory, the default backup location is set to the **%USERPROFILE%\Documents** folder. This is because otherwise the zipped folder is automatically added as a project item for SDK projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>When the project and solution are placed in the same directory, the default backup location is set to the **%USERPROFILE%\Documents** folder.
```
The second sentence is unclear to me. Can we refactor it or remove it? Is this information valuable for the reader?

![Open Upgrade Wizard](images/upgrade-wizard-open.png)

## Files for Upgrade

The **Upgrade Information** step of the Upgrade Project Wizard describes the files and assemblies that will be upgraded.

![Upgrade Wizard Information Page](images/upgrade-wizard-information.png)

The Telerik Blazor Upgrade Wizard will do the following: 

* Update the version of the referenced Blazor NuGet package. It will also update the package source in the solution-based NuGet config file.
* It will update the version of the theme references (If CDN is used, it will be also updated).
* It will update all local script and style and NuGet package references in case client upgrades from Trial to Dev version.
* It will add the new keys in the default (English) localization file.

## Projects for Upgrade

The next page of the Upgrade Wizard lists all projects from the solution that use Telerik UI for Blazor. Choose the projects that you want to upgrade and the version to which they will be upgraded.

> >We recommend selecting all projects that reference UI for Blazor and upgrading them to the same product version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>tip We recommend selecting all projects that reference UI for Blazor and upgrading them to the same product version.
```

![Upgrade Wizard Projects Selection](images/upgrade-wizard-projects.png)  

## Upgrade Localization File

> If localization is enabled in the application you can select the **Upgrade the localization file** option. The Upgrade Wizard will add new localization keys from the default (English) localization file in the distribution we upgrade to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If localization is enabled in the application, you can select the **Upgrade the localization file** option. The Upgrade Wizard will add new localization keys from the default (English) localization file in the distribution we upgrade to.
```

The option is selected by default if there is a **Resources\TelerikMessages.resx** file in the current project. In this case, **Resources\TelerikMessages.resx** file is selected in the file browser.

![Upgrade Wizard Localization File](images/upgrade-wizard-localization-file.png)  

## Create Backup

You can create a backup before running the upgrade wizard by selecting the **Create a backup before upgrading** option.

>When the project and solution are placed in the same directory, the default backup location is set to the **%USERPROFILE%\Documents** folder.

![Upgrade Wizard Backup](images/upgrade-wizard-backup.png)  

## Upgrade Log

In case one of the options ([Create a backup before upgrading](#create-backup) or [Upgrade the localization file](#upgrade-localization-file)) is selected, an **Upgrade Log** will be opened in your default browser at the end of the upgrade. The log can show the backup location, an entry for each localization key added or a localization upgrade error. Each upgrade log file is in HTML format. The file name contains the date and time of the upgrade.

![Upgrade Wizard Log](images/upgrade-wizard-backup.png)

## Troubleshooting

> The following common problems might occur when converting a project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following common problems might occur when upgrading a project:
```
